notes.md, before:

# Basics

- NoSQL database, Document-oriented
- Use: scalable web applications, mobile applications, real-time analytics
- Characteristics: JSON document storage, key-value storage, distributed architecture, easy scalability, N1QL for querying

# History

# AP, CA, or CP?

Partition-tolerant by default.

Can be configured to be both AP ('eventual' consistency/low latency) or CP ('strong' consistency/high latency).

# Data Model

NoSQL document-oriented data model
Data stored as JSON documents

# Questions to answer

1. What makes couchbase an 'easy to scale' server? What databases types are hard to scale?
2. What does Couchbase have in common with the other databases on the list, and what sets it apart?
3. What is sharding?
4. What is NoSQL?
5. Demo?

# Sources

https://www.couchbase.com/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Couchbase_Server
https://developer.couchbase.com/tutorial-quickstart-nodejs
https://couchbase.live/examples/basic-java-query-rows
https://terrydhariwal.github.io/2016/03/22/part-2-couchbase-architecture-in-a-nutshell

Some background to the database system - Victor
Overview of the design and architecture of the system - Savannah
Where does it fall in the CAP model, Why? - Victor
Describe some use cases of the database - Savannah
Pros and Cons of the database - Victor
Consider a demo if that's possible - Savannah

Commit message:

added some initial work on background of couchbase, and some intial answers to FAQ-style questions

notes.md, after:

# Background

- distributed
  - subject to the CAP theorem

Q) What is NoSQL?

- NoSQL databases are schema-less or have flexible schemas,
- Typically they are easier to scale horizontally
- Can be optimized for different datatypes
- They are particularly suited for handling large volumes of unstructured or semi-structured data.

Q) What is a Schema-less application?

- _FORMAT_ of the data is not owned by the database (compare with Relational databases which will ensure the data is tabular and in "normal form")
- Couchbase is _schemaless_ because it will store any valid JSON or XML file
- Usually document stores are schemaless, whereas relational databases have a schema

# Couchbase is a document store

- NoSQL database, Document-oriented
- Use: scalable web applications, mobile applications, real-time analytics
- Characteristics: JSON document storage, key-value storage, distributed architecture, easy scalability, N1QL for querying

# History

# AP, CA, or CP?

Partition-tolerant by default.

Can be configured to be both AP ('eventual' consistency/low latency) or CP ('strong' consistency/high latency).

# Data Model

NoSQL document-oriented data model
Data stored as JSON documents

# Questions to answer

# Sources

https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/learn/clusters-and-availability/xdcr-overview.html
https://www.couchbase.com/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Couchbase_Server
https://developer.couchbase.com/tutorial-quickstart-nodejs
https://couchbase.live/examples/basic-java-query-rows
https://terrydhariwal.github.io/2016/03/22/part-2-couchbase-architecture-in-a-nutshell

# Tasks

Some background to the database system - Victor
Overview of the design and architecture of the system - Savannah
Where does it fall in the CAP model, Why? - Victor
Describe some use cases of the database - Savannah
Pros and Cons of the database - Victor
Consider a demo if that's possible - Savannah
